I knew your father.
I am yet convinced that
he was not of this world.
You have his presence.
I've seen the land shining with goodness.
It's the kingdom of
summer. and I will be its king.
Vortigern is gone. Rome is gone.
The saecsen is here.
but who will lead the fight?
My brother is high king.
Your brother commands
no army of his own.
Yield your claim.
I will yet forgive if you
agree to bend the knee.
Will you follow me against the saecsen?
We recognize aurelius
as the lawful high king.
Fisher king's sword.
Your sword. the sword of a high king.
What was it like. Merlin.
to be alone with god?
Is that who you think I was alone with?
Who else?
I do not know if god
was with me in caer efon
all these many years. grandfather.
but I know morgian was.
You would've drowned on the shores
of sores if not for me.
And am I to thank you
for this life that I have.
ignored and forgotten?
Arian. you must hurry along
to your studies with caius.
Your mother knows what's best for you.
A gift for hengist.
Great darkness is falling upon this land.
These brothers are our
only hope to stand against it.
The kings of the north
shall ride to their aid.
You have my word.
Watch Online Movies and Series for FREE
www.osdb.link/lm
Hail the wild man of the wood.
I bring you greetings
from the world of men.
Your work is not finished
in the land of the living.
Your salvation is at hand.
But you must go back the way you came.
I won't go back. I won't go back.
Do you remember the
last time you tasted wine.
warm food in your
belly. Merlin ambrosius?
How do you know my name?
Drink.
50 years is a long time to
live on locusts and honey.
Has it been that long?
I am not going back.
So you say.
I am happy as I am.
No one is happy in hell.
Leave me.
I have not come to take you away.
You have carried your
burden long enough.
It is time to lay it down.
Burden it may be.
but it's all I have left.
No. Merlin. not all.
The time has come.
my son. to be reborn.
Madoc's archers arrived last night.
We estimate about 2.000
with another 500 mounted.
How many are there now?
More.
We grow our army by twos and threes.
and every day. a new warship
arrives from saecsenland.
Do we grow?
Some of the dumnonii
slipped away last night.
Leave the quarrels outside this tent.
We all know the enemy is strong.
Their ranks are more
numerous than our own.
It was our weakness and division
that let the barbarians
gain a foothold in this land.
If we are to drive them out.
it must be by our strength and unity.
And how are we to drive out
15.000 saecsen
with only two and a half thousand men?
Hengist's arrogance will be his downfall.
Take those blades over.
The boy is a fool.
5.000 could not hold that fort.
not even if they were the
finest soldiers in the world.
You must talk to him.
attempt to impart some reason.
Speak if you will. I've had my fill of talk.
What are you saying?
Look around you. If
we stay. we're doomed.
And if we retreat the saecsens will rape
and pillage this land.
Let them rape and pillage.
The walls of my fortress are high.
and I intend to live to
see another summer.
I didn't figure you for a coward.
Since when does a king need permission
to ride among his troops?
Don't lie to me. morcant.
I do not lie.
You would abandon your
brothers on the Eve of battle.
I would save my people from destruction.
So should you.
A saecsen army could never
breach the walls of tintagel.
Send your men back to their beds.
and I'll say no more of this offense.
No one commands my men but I.
Faer folk.
King aurelius.
I present to you the lord of the north.
Greetings. my friends.
You'll find a warm welcome here.
I hear you've brought
us some saecsens to kill.
That's welcome enough.
Steward.
Battle chief.
Are we late to the battle?
The enemy's before us. not behind.
I heard the faery of the
north are great warriors.
Did the saecsens take your arm?
No. it was my daughter's husband.
My lord. there's someone waiting for you.
Mother.
What are you doing here?
It's not safe.
I've come with some brothers
from the shrine of St. Joseph
to ease the pain of the wounded
and the passage of the dying.
What is it. hawk?
Not long ago. you offered
me the Fisher king's sword.
I would gladly take it up now.
I did not bring it.
I have offered that sword to each
of the three great men in my life.
Your grandfather refused it.
Your father refused it. and you refused it.
I have always believed you
were meant to be high king.
Your father prophesied
it. Hafgan declared it.
Perhaps they saw
through me to another.
And perhaps. perhaps you were meant
to wield a different weapon.
King gorlas's daughter.
Does your brother know?
My brother has more
important matters to attend to.
as do we all.
The river is too far and too deep.
It's not too far on horseback.
and it's not too deep if it's unguarded.
As soon as we march our armies north.
hengist will turn to us.
No. he won't because the
main body of our war host
will already have engaged him.
Here.
Make an easy target.
Make him commit his war host.
Aye.
And I will lead the
mounted troops to the river.
cross. and attack hengist from behind.
You?
It must be me.
If you can kill the bretwalda himself.
his armies will collapse.
Then you think it's a
good plan. king gorlas?
I think it's a desperate plan and foolish.
But I can see none better.
Then the die is cast.
Tomorrow. we make war.
For britain.
And what happens when we
cannot hold the river long enough
before aurelius makes his crossing?
We won't need that long.
just long enough
for myrddin to remember his calling.
You've kept your promise
and brought us the men in the north.
but it isn't enough.
What does aurelius say?
His new faith has clouded his judgment.
He's waiting on a miracle.
And why do you tell me this?
Because I think you can give him one.
They say that when the
battle awen is upon you.
you become an unstoppable force.
Ride with us into battle tomorrow.
We face 15.000 saecsen.
What do you ask? I know what I ask.
If I lead you into victory. uther.
the men of britain will proclaim me king.
Yes.
But at least there will be a britain.
Jesu before me. Jesu behind.
Not by my power. jesu. but thine.
The men are ready for battle.
For the soul of britain.
the battle has already begun.
Jesu before me. Jesu behind.
Not by my power.
jesu. The power is thine.
Jesu before me. Jesu behind.
A war camp is no place
for a lady such as yourself.
A lady is never safer
than with the battle chief
of britain watching over her.
Forgive me if I've overstepped.
No.
Ygerna.
Jesu behind.
Jesu before me. Jesu behind.
He seeks our deliverance from god-
jesu behind.
When he could so easily just give it
to us with his own hands.
Not by my power. jesu. but thine.
Jesu behind.
Jesu before me. Jesu behind.
That is why he seeks
deliverance from god
and not by his own hands. Jesu behind.
Old one-eye approaches.
You are lady of the lake?
And you are king gorlas of tintagel. yes?
This is my daughter. ygerna.
I would entrust her
into your care tomorrow.
Can you help bind wounds
and fetch water for the dying?
I will do whatever I can to aid the fight.
In the days of your father's fathers.
before the treachery.
before the conspiracy.
When the eagle still flew
above the emperor's wall
and the Roman peace
still held in these lands.
a babe was fetched from
the waters beneath yr widdfa.
and that babe a bard.
and that bard a prophet.
Hear then. if you will.
the vision of taliesin ap
elphin ap gwyddno garanhir.
and this is the way of it.
There is a land shining with goodness.
where each man protects
his brother's dignity as his own.
where war and want have ceased.
and all races live under the
same law of love and honor.
It is a land bright with truth.
where a man's word is his pledge
and falsehood is banished.
where children sleep
safely in their mother's arms
and never know fear or pain.
a land where kings
extend their hands in justice
rather than reach for the sword.
where mercy. kindness. and compassion
flow like deep water over the land.
and men revere virtue.
revere truth. revere beauty
above comfort. pleasure.
and selfish gain.
a land where peace
reigns in the hearts of men.
Faith blazes like a
beacon from every hill.
love like a fire from every heart.
where the true god is worshiped
and his ways acclaimed by all.
There is a golden
realm of light. my friends.
and it is called the kingdom of summer.
Nice work.
Good luck.
Be strong. Be resilient.
This is an honor. father.
to ride with you into battle.
And we both earn names
the bards shall speak of
throughout the ages.
And may god in heaven deliver us.
Sire. allow me.
Your song last night. I've
never heard anything like it.
Greater rebuke you could not give me.
I mean no rebuke.
On the contrary.
I've never seen the
souls of men stirred so.
But that is the rebuke. king.
I have failed you. aurelius.
Failed?
I sit at the head of an
army of your making.
While I've been playing
kingmaker and politician.
while I've been wallowing in my misery
for a lifetime or more.
while I was busy being
king in maridunum.
fhain-brother in the north.
and dreaming away my youth.
I should have been
focused on my first calling.
my true calling.
I am Merlin emrys.
son of taliesin ap elphin ap gwyddno.
and I am the last true bard
of the island of the mighty.
I will uphold you in battle.
as the bards of the old did.
The fate of britain ever rests
in the hands of the great light.
Then I'll see you in the battle is won.
If your prayer should fail.
Are we not riding with them. lord?
No.
We must fight a different battle.
Men of the island of the mighty.
long have your tribes fought alone
against the Irish. pict.
scoti. and the saecsen.
at times. against each other.
east and west. north and south.
cymry and brigante.
cornovii and demetae.
belgae and dumnonii.
Since bran the blessed.
you have only known peace
when it was given to you.
You have only known unity
when it was forced upon
you by stronger kings.
but today. you stand together.
You stand as britons.
You stand as one. or you will surely fall.
Behold. the sword of Magnus Maximus.
emperor of britain and Rome.
who held this land against
the barbarians so long ago.
Now behold your battle chief.
You must hold the line. brother.
You must hold britain.
The sword is britain.
For aurelius.
For britain.
Hold your formations.
Hold.
Any man who runs. dies.
Hold. Hold.
Hold your formations.
men of britain. please.
Hold.
Hold the line.
Well done. uther.
Belgae. ready yourselves.
Now.
Ya. ya.
Where is he going?
Jesu before us. Jesu behind.
Hold.
Uther.
Archers.
Do it.
Now.
Hold the line. hold the line.
Don't go back.
Push.
Go. Take them down.
They are breaking through!
Hold the line.
Push them back. push them back.
Well done. battle chief. well done.
I would urge you to be cautious.
Ygerna. ygerna.
Hold the line.
Great light. deliver your people.
Great light. preserve our king.
Great light.
we are lost in unless
we find ourselves in you.
Will your great light save you
if you have the power to
save yourself. my love?
Jesu before me. Jesu behind.
Not by my power. jesu. but thine.
Why does the champion
of summer devote himself
to prayer when the battle is before him?
Why does he let others suffer
when his sword arm is strong?
Well. you know suffering. don't you?
Morgian.
At last. my dear nephew.
I'd begun to fear you had lost your wits.
Father.
Why do you not speak. my love?
Does fear bind your tongue?
You are right when you
speak of fear. morgian.
I do fear you full well.
And yet. if not for me.
you would have been killed long ago.
I interceded for you. nephew.
You owe me a debt.
You owe me a father.
Taliesin's death is bitter to me.
My arrow was never meant for him.
Those are the first true
words you've ever spoken.
Charis never spared a thought for me.
savior of her people.
I would've given the
world than everything in it
to have taliesin smile at
me the way he smiled at her.
to have avallach smile at
to have anyone smile at me
the way they smiled at her.
But I was young.
Such things mattered to me then.
What matters to you
now. mistress of lies?
You. nephew.
Your unreasoning hatred of the old ways.
of your own past and
power. cannot continue.
It will not be tolerated. Merlin.
But it does not have to be this way.
Britain does not have to perish.
The saecsens do not have to prevail.
My god will preserve us.
Your god.
Or your aurelius?
Did you think your juvenile
plan would not be known to us?
Did you think we would not be prepared?
Just as your witch mother foresaw.
Loose the arrows.
My men are down there.
The witch foresaw their deaths.
You will be rewarded.
Today. britain dies.
Great light. uphold us.
The waste of it all. the senselessness.
How many lives must be lost
before you accept the
power you were born to wield?
Great light. uphold it.
Great light.
Great darkness.
What separates day from night?
Only a handful of
hours. turn of the earth.
We are not so different. you and I.
We're overrun.
Tell them to retreat. or we're lost.
You know what you must do.
Why do you falter?
They need you. Merlin.
They need you now.
Feel the power in your arm.
Feel the strong steel in your hand.
Take me up.
Remember what they did to me. my love.
Meurig!
Charis.
Close the ranks!
They are dying. myrddin.
Britain is dying.
The vision of your father is dying.
Your battle chief is dying.
and your king is dead.
Great light. forgive me.
You do not need forgiveness.
just the will to power.
and when you have
vanquished your foes.
we will rule together.
the king and queen of
the kingdom of summer.
Jesu!
I've already been baptized.
I know. my son.
It's been a long time
since you were clean.
Your work is not yet finished. Merlin.
The great darkness we've long feared
has gained a foothold
on the island of the mighty.
You should have let me die.
You sang your life into me.
Would that you had remained instead.
I had my time.
I completed my work.
You. you were my vision. my son.
I have failed.
Then you must start again.
You must go back the way you came.
What does that mean?
That is for you to discover.
It's a father's right to
give his son his first shave.
That right was stolen from
me by the one you fear most.
Morgian.
And yet the swift sure hand
has given us this moment
to make right that loss.
Let her go. my son.
Go forth. Meet the day.
It's time for us both to leave this place.
One comes whose
prayers have carried you
further than you know.
We'll dress you in clothes
appropriate to your rank.
I'd rather stay here with you. father.
I have ever been with you. Merlin.
Myrddin.
I am not the king of the
summer kingdom. morgian.
and you are only the
queen of air and darkness.
You fool. still clinging
to the promises of a god
who has abandoned you.
We're not abandoned. not yet.
Hengist is dead.
Orcadians.
For britain. For britain.
One battle. one war.
men's heart remain unchanged.
And yet...
When I consider what
you must have sacrificed.
only to fail-I sacrificed nothing.
My power comes as
easily as yours. nephew.
and as your father's.
I will see you again. myrddin.
I'll see you again. morgian.
Nice work.
All hail aurelius.
high king and pen dragon of britain.
Aurelius!
King aurelius. ygerna. my daughter.
Is ygerna here?
Ygerna.
Uther.
It's you.
What you said. Uther!
Master.
Great light. we are not equal to this fight.
Myrddin. what is it?
What have you seen?
Our doom.
We all have the right.
We're kings of britain.
Shut up. This is executive council.
Don't you shut me up. Come now.
I have every right.
I have the right to say this.
What gives her the right
to the sword of britain?
What gives you the right?
Quiet. quiet.
This is executive council.
Don't you shut me up.
I have every right.
Quiet. quiet.
You leave with-quiet.
Watch Online Movies and Series for FREE
www.osdb.link/lm